Add ERC: Encrypted Hashed Arguments and Calls (#1361)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-8087.md

---
eip: 8087
title: Encrypted Hashed Arguments and Calls

> description: A Protocol for Encrypted Hashed Function Call and Encrypted Hashed Function Argument Execution via Decryption Oracle

Reviewer: The only information your description introduces that wasn't previously introduced in your title is "via Decryption Oracle".

I think you can make more efficient use of the limited space here if you avoid restating so much of your title.

author: Christian Fries (@cfries), Peter Kohl-Landgraf (@pekola)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-8087-encrypted-hashed-arguments-and-calls/26706
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-11-14
requires: 7573
---

## Abstract

This ERC standardizes how smart contracts can request a **function execution with encrypted arguments**,
optionally with an **encrypted call descriptor**, using a stateless decryption oracle (a *Call Decryption Oracle*).

> The goal is to support use-cases like privacy-preserving order books (preventing front-running) or conditional DvP flows,

Reviewer: > [...] DvP [...]

Please expand uncommon abbreviations the first time they are used.

The ERC is compatible with existing decryption-oracle designs such as [ERC-7573](../EIPS/eip-7573.html) and can be implemented as an extension of such oracles.

The contract receiving the decrypted arguments can pass these on to other contracts, which can, if necessary, validate the arguments against the previously stored **hash commitment**.

The decrypted arguments are transported as `(uint256 requestId, bytes argsPlain)` to allow correlating the call
to the request. Here `argsPlain` is an ABI-encoding of a typed argument list (depending on the business logic).

## Motivation

Privacy- and conditionality-preserving protocols often need to:

- Keep **arguments** confidential until some condition is met (e.g. order books).
- Optionally keep the **target address and function** itself confidential.
- Allow **reusable encrypted argument blobs** that can be passed between contracts and stored on-chain.
- Allow the **receiver** of a call to verify that the decrypted arguments used in the call are exactly those that were committed to earlier.

> Existing work like [ERC-7573](../EIPS/eip-7573.html) focuses on a specific decryption-oracle use-case with fixed callbacks (e.g. DvP).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Existing work like [ERC-7573](./eip-7573.md) focuses on a specific decryption-oracle use-case with fixed callbacks (e.g. DvP).
```

Link to the markdown file.

This ERC generalizes that pattern to a **generic function execution** mechanism, designed around:

- a clear separation of **argument encryption** and **call encryption**, and
- an explicit hash commitment enabling verification of the arguments by the receiving contract.

### Exemplary Use-Cases

#### Order Book Build Process avoiding Front Running

A possible use-case is the construction of an auction / order book preventing front-running, where
the proposals can be made during a predefined phase.
Here participants submit their proposals as encrypted hashed arguments, which are stored inside a smart
contract. Once the order phase is closed, the smart contract calls the *call decryption oracle* (passing
itself as the callback target) to receive the decrypted arguments in a call that will build the order book.

## Specification

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119) and [RFC 8174](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174).
```

Since you're using the UPPERCASE keywords, you should include this snippet from the template.

> ### 1. Encrypted arguments

Reviewer: Make sure your headings have consistent casing. You've been using Title Case so far.

Encrypted arguments are independent of any particular call descriptor and can be reused.

> Upon (off-chain) encryption (initialization) a hash of the (plain) arguments is generated

Reviewer: The parentheses here make things more confusing instead of less.

- The explicit **hash commitment** (`argsHash`) binds arguments to a commitment stored by the receiving contract, while still allowing the arguments to be stored and passed separately as opaque bytes.
- The **request/fulfill pattern** reflects that decryption is off-chain. Requests are cheap; fulfill is initiated when decryption is ready.
- The use of `abi.encodeWithSelector(selector, requestId, argsPlain)` makes the on-chain oracle generic and able to support arbitrary function signatures while still providing a standard correlation identifier (`requestId`).
- **Router/adapter pattern:** when integrating with already deployed contracts whose function signatures cannot be changed, a small router contract can serve as the callback. The router implements a function like `executeWithVerification(uint256 requestId, bytes argsPlain)`, verifies `requestId` and `argsHash` as above, decodes `argsPlain` into typed arguments, and then calls the pre-existing target contract with its original typed function. This preserves compatibility with existing deployments while still using the standard *call decryption oracle*.

## Backwards Compatibility

> This ERC is designed to coexist with [ERC-7573](../EIPS/eip-7573.html) decryption oracles. An existing [ERC-7573](../EIPS/eip-7573.html) implementation can be extended to implement `ICallDecryptionOracle` without breaking existing interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This ERC is designed to coexist with [ERC-7573](./eip-7573.md) decryption oracles. An existing [ERC-7573](./eip-7573.md) implementation can be extended to implement `ICallDecryptionOracle` without breaking existing interfaces.
```

## Reference Implementation

A non-normative reference implementation (Solidity) and a matching Java/off-chain implementation are provided separately. They illustrate:

- storage of pending requests,
- event emission for both encrypted and plain call descriptors,
- validation of hash bindings, and
- low-level call execution.

These implementations are work-in-progress and may evolve independently of the ERC text.

### Fees

Implementations MAY charge fees in ETH or [ERC-20](../EIPS/eip-20.html) tokens as part of their specific deployment.

> 

Reviewer: Ah, if it's already in your assets directory, please add a link to it.
